.TH SHOREWALL 8 "2026" "shorewall-nft" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
shorewall \- Shorewall firewall for nftables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shorewall
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B shorewall-nft
is a drop-in replacement for Shorewall that compiles an
.I /etc/shorewall
configuration to an nftables ruleset. It reads the same configuration
files as Shorewall, supplies the same
.B shorewall
command, and installs the same service, so a working Shorewall system
moves over without a configuration rewrite.
.PP
The rules are generated into a single table,
.IR "table inet shorewall" ,
which serves both IPv4 and IPv6. The ruleset is applied atomically with
.BR "nft -f" ,
and validated first with
.BR "nft -c -f" ,
so a bad configuration never partly loads. The compiler fails loud on
anything it does not support, naming the file and line, and never
silently produces a weaker firewall.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B start
Compile the configuration and load the ruleset.
.TP
.B stop
Load the stopped-state ruleset, which permits only the hosts listed in
.IR stoppedrules .
.TP
.B reload\fR, \fBrestart
Recompile and reload the ruleset.
.TP
.B clear
Remove the shorewall table entirely, leaving the firewall open.
.TP
.B try \fIdirectory\fR [\fItimeout\fR]
Load a configuration and revert it automatically after
.I timeout
seconds unless it is confirmed. Safe for a change that might lock you
out.
.TP
.B safe-start\fR, \fBsafe-restart
Like start and restart, but revert automatically unless confirmed.
.TP
.B check \fR[\fIdirectory\fR]
Compile and validate a configuration without loading it. Reports
anything unsupported. Reads only; changes nothing.
.TP
.B compile \fR[\fIdirectory\fR] \fB-o \fIfile
Write the generated nftables ruleset to a file.
.TP
.B status
Show the loaded ruleset.
.TP
.B show\fR, \fBlist\fR, \fBls
Show parts of the running configuration in nft syntax.
.TP
.B save\fR, \fBrestore\fR, \fBforget
Manage a saved ruleset.
.TP
.B migrate \fR[\fB--undo\fR] [\fB--yes\fR]
Move a Shorewall system to shorewall-nft. Validates
.IR /etc/shorewall ,
reports each file's support state, and hands the firewall over on
confirmation. Refuses a configuration that does not compile.
.B --undo
reverses the service handover. See
.BR shorewall-migration (7).
.TP
.B geoip-update \fR[\fB--from \fIdir\fR] [\fIcc\fR ...]
Fill the geoip country sets from CIDR data, downloaded or read from a
local directory. Run on a schedule by the shipped systemd timer.
.TP
.B ipcalc\fR, \fBiprange
Address arithmetic helpers.
.TP
.B version
Print the shorewall-nft version and the nft version.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/shorewall
The configuration, read unchanged. See the shorewall\-*(5) manual pages
for the file formats.
.TP
.I /var/lib/shorewall-nft
The compiled artifact, saved state, and geoip data.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Most of Shorewall works unchanged. Raw iptables passthrough, geoip via
the xt_geoip module, and a few obsolete features do not; a raw nftables
passthrough and native geoip sets replace them. See the coverage
document for the file-by-file state, and run
.B shorewall check
against a configuration for its specific result.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nft (8),
.BR shorewall.conf (5),
.BR shorewall-zones (5),
.BR shorewall-interfaces (5),
.BR shorewall-policy (5),
.BR shorewall-rules (5)
.SH NOTES
This is shorewall-nft, an independent reimplementation. It is not the
original Perl Shorewall, which does not support nftables. The
configuration file formats are the same.
