.TH SHOREWALL-NETMAP 5 "July 2026" "shorewall-nft" "Configuration Files"
.SH NAME
shorewall-netmap \- legacy Shorewall NETMAP definition file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/shorewall/netmap
.br
.B /etc/shorewall6/netmap
.SH DESCRIPTION
Maps addresses in one prefix to corresponding addresses in another prefix.
shorewall-nft retains the traditional file format and implements supported
entries with stateful nftables prefix NAT.
.PP
The columns are:
.PP
.B TYPE NET1 INTERFACE NET2 [NET3 [PROTO [DPORT [SPORT]]]]
.TP
.B TYPE
SNAT or SNAT:T performs source prefix translation in postrouting. DNAT or
DNAT:P performs destination prefix translation in prerouting. Historical
cross-hook SNAT:P and DNAT:T entries are diagnosed but are not supported by
the nftables backend.
.TP
.B NET1
Strict CIDR prefix matched before translation. A suffix such as
.B !2001:db8::/112
excludes a contained prefix from matching.
.TP
.B INTERFACE
Logical or physical interface defined in the interfaces file. DNAT matches the
input interface; SNAT matches the output interface. Shorewall wildcard matching
is retained.
.TP
.B NET2
Strict translated CIDR prefix. It must have the same family and prefix length
as NET1. Address bits below that prefix length are preserved.
.TP
.B NET3
Optional source qualifier for DNAT or destination qualifier for SNAT.
.TP
.B PROTO, DPORT, SPORT
Optional packet qualifiers. Protocol names/numbers, service names, port lists
and ranges are accepted. With ICMP or ICMPv6, DPORT is a type or type/code.
.SH STATEFUL BEHAVIOR
nftables NAT uses conntrack. The first packet establishes the prefix-NAT
binding and later packets reuse it. Existing connections can retain an old
mapping after provider failover. This is not the stateless Rawpost behavior of
historical Shorewall6 and is not stateless RFC 6296 NPTv6. shorewall-nft does
not flush conntrack during lifecycle or provider events.
.SH FILES
.B /etc/shorewall/netmap
.br
.B /etc/shorewall6/netmap
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR shorewall (8),
.BR shorewall-interfaces (5)
